#summary For discussion of items on the Features track

= Introduction =

Tentative page, ignore if not needed. 

If we need a place for discussion of work and progress on the features track, this would be it. I'm not sure we do, but since I've made one for refactoring, I thought I'd put this one up. 
= Details =

For example, we might use this space to discuss how we prioritize the features described in the stories we come up with, as well as how they fit together. Some of the stories will require more development than others, so we can spin out how those work. Some of the stories might not come true this year, but we might like them so much we take them into account in the architecture, so they might one day come true. For example,  [The_Story_of_Mike the story of Mike] may well be beyond our capacity, but if we tie the software directly to local grading databases it will never happen. If we come up with good mechanisms for communicating grades which are not so locked to local data, then that's more possible down the road. 

= User Stories =
User stories provide a means for describing our vision of how the software we are developing is to be used. They provide a language for discussing proposed features and a basis for more detailed and formalized characterization of those features. 
For ease of discussion, their central characters should have distinctive names, as that's how we're likely to refer to them. 


=List of Stories=

 * [The_Story_of_Mike the story of Mike]
 * [The_Story_of_Randy the story of Randy]
 * [The_Story_of_Amy the story of Amy]