#summary Meeting 9 - 1/6/2010
= Meeting 9 - 1/6/2010 =

Attendance: Jon Kiparsky, Glenn Thelen(via speakerphone), Andrew Schonfeld

===News:===

Our team has scheduled a deliverable of 1/15/10 for a working version of the applet ready for testing (This version will basically the bare essentials needed for Professor White's students to login, create a tree, answer the open response questions, etc.  In total, it will have all of the basic functionality that the original version had).

===Discussion:===

*Scoring*

Earlier in the day Jon had e-mail out some [JonsSoringNotes notes] that he had made on the scoring functionality.  These were very good notes and very in depth.  We began the meeting discussing scoring and came to the conclusion that this functionality is still not required for the the deliverable of 1/15, because Professor White had been doing the scoring by hand(if any) in the old version.

*Upcoming Deliverable*

As stated earlier in the news, we have an approaching deliverable for our software of the 15th.  During the last two-plus weeks of vacation Andrew completed much of the new functionality at the same time refactoring portions of the code for easier readability and processing time.  There are still two features that were part of our new release that have not been finished:
  * Splash instructions within the applet (Jon)
  * Cursor availablity when relabeling an empty node (Glenn)
Of the two things still to be completed, the splash instructions were of the most importance, because without them the instructions contained within the HTML generated by the Perl Script cannot be removed.  We determined in [MeetingEightMinutes Meeting 8] that we should try to remove all extra text from the HTML so scrolling won't be available in the website, thus eliminating rendering problems within the applet.  So to round out this discussion we agreed that implementation of this feature was imperative & help would be available as needed. Andrew, also added that he would work on finishing the cursor changes when a user clicks the "Label" button and hovers over an unlabelable node.

*New Features*

A new feature that Andrew recommended should be added was:
  * Opening screen pop-up showing the user's name & whether they have completed the assignment or not

*Admin Functionality*

The last thing that we discussed was how the applet/website should behave when an Administrator(Professor White) has logged in. Here was what we came up with(images coming soon):
  # Update HTML generated by Perl script
    * Add a drop-down of students for selection which upon selection would update the applet to show that student's information
    * For this version we will need a way to update the Applet with the Admin's student selection 
  # Redesign of the applet view (Some of these are pending analysis)
    * Change the node resivoir to a selectable list of students
    * Removing all buttons & showing only three new buttons (Tree, Open Responses, Analysis)
    * Adding pop-up prompt with a smooth display of each Open-response question & its response
    * Adding pop-up prompt with a smooth display of analysis from the scoring algorithm's assessment of the student's tree  
