#summary The projected course of development of the tree-building survey.
#labels Featured

== Introduction ==

This is a first draft of the schedule. Team members, please modify the format in any way that you think useful. Also, of course the data. <br>
Dates are guesses in some instances, or ???? if I don't have enough data to usefully guess. <br>
"Track" is my notion for identifying dependencies. We know that there are two parallel tracks already: projecting and prioritizing features to be developed ("features") and refactoring the current code ("refactor"). "Main" indicates items relevant to both tracks. This is probably not the right way to do this, it's just the way I thought of.  <br>
"Preliminary schedule" will be done when we have all signed off on this schedule page, and each of the ???? items has at least one finite, boolean subtask with a definite near-term (<2 weeks) completion date. I suggest that the short stories may qualify as a subtask for "client meeting". 

== Details ==

||Due Date||Short name||Responsibility||Track||Date Completed||
||9/30/09||set up google code page||Andrew||main||9/30/09||
||9/30/09||post BW's code||Jon||main||9/30/09||
||10/8/09||[http://cluster.bio.whe.umb.edu/cgi-bin/TreeSurvey.pl Current Version] up and running somewhere||Andrew||main||10/8/09||
||10/8/09||[Schedule Preliminary schedule]||team consensus||main||10/8/09||
||10/8/09||[VisionStatement Vision Statement]||Andrew||main||10/8/09||
||10/9/09||[Technology_Stack Downloaded, Installed, & Configured Technology Stack]||Andrew||main||10/9/09||
||10/11/09||Setup local version of the Professor White's code||Andrew||main||10/11/09||
||10/13/09||1 story from each team member||team||[Features features]||10/13/09||
||10/13/09||All members of team have local builds||team||build||Completed||
||10/15/09||[UI_Options UI options] prepared for team approval||Jon||UI||10/13/09||
||10/15/09||[VisionStatement Vision statement approved by client]||team||main||10/15/09||
||10/15/09||architecture of redesigned code||Glenn||main||10/15/09||
||10/18/09||develop build system||Andrew||main||10/17/09||
||10/20/09||A selection of logos to choose from||Jon||marketing||10/16/09||
||10/22/09||Post original [Applets applet] to wiki||Andrew||main||10/20/09||
||10/26/09||Applet Version 0.1||team||[Versioning Versions]||10/26/09||
||10/29/09||Applet Version 0.2||team||[Versioning Versions]||10/29/09||
||11/01/09||Applet Version 0.3||team||[Versioning Versions]||11/01/09||
||11/09/09||Applet Version 0.4||team||[Versioning Versions]||11/09/09||
||11/10/09||Client meeting||team||Features/UI||11/10/09||
||11/12/09||Applet Version 0.5||team||[Versioning Versions]||Skipped||
||11/12/09||Venture Capital presentation||team||main||11/12/09||
||11/15/09||First draft of javadoc||Jon||main||11/15/09||
||11/15/09||Applet Version 0.6||team||[Versioning Versions]||11/23/09||
||12/01/09||Applet Version 1.0||team||[Versioning Versions]||12/08/09||
||12/10/09||Finalized List of Features Scheduled for Spring Semester Deliverable||team||[MeetingEightMinutes Meeting 8]||12/10/09||
||12/14/09||Applet Version 1.1||team||[Versioning Versions]||12/14/09||
||12/15/09||Finalized Requirements Document Due||team||[http://code.google.com/p/tree-buildingsurvey/downloads/list TBS_BRD-1.doc]||12/15/09||
||1/15/10||Applet Version Including [MeetingEightMinutes New Features] Ready For Testing||team||||||
||11/20/09||Rewrite applet testing protocols - draft|| Jon||[AppletGUITesting] ||||
||12/31/09||Add front (login) and back (post-test) screens||team||main||||
||1/30/10||Functioning program with full feature set||team||main||||


== Discussion ==
11/24 - the testing protocols are behind schedule. This is partly due to my failure to manage my time effectively, and partly due to over-optimistic scheduling. 
Progress on this front would be facilitated by some specification of features and interface, or even stability of those elements from iteration to iteration. -jpk
11/12 - Venture cap meeting. Expecting trailer truck loaded with bales of money, any day now. Added some writing assignments for myself. No outlook for version 0.6 yet, or scheduled release - should have that soon. 
11/08 - Productive meeting, see minutes. 
10/20 - We did not discuss the question of further feature development in class today, so that's a missed schedule item (and it's even one that we rolled back, for shame).
I suggest we carry on that discussion via the wiki for the moment, over on the [Features features] page. 
On the other hand, we did get a logo selected and posted, so hurray for us. New schedule items are up, and one is completed - sort of - before it's posted.

Later: test cases for toy GUI are posted, please review and approve or suggest changes. 


10/15
I assume that Professor White's vision statement is acceptable to all of us - accepted by acclamation, without dissent. 
Andrew, if you agree that you're the lead on "develop build system", please erase the question mark. If not, we need to address that item. 


10/08 - I'm checking off two of the items for today as done. We have finite schedule items under "client meeting" (develop user stories) and "build" (local builds by Tuesday), and a terminal date for the refactor track (11/05). As for the vision statement, we have one. It's probably not one that will be signed off on, so it still needs work, but it's there. Next step is to make it approvable by next Thursday. <br>