#summary Project Status/Discussion/Bulletin Board

I'll be striking this page from the table of contents on 11/20/09, unless it's taken up as a channel of communication. -jpk


= Introduction =
Informal intra-group channel. Observations, questions, agenda items, own-horn-tootings, and such belong here. Open channel. Sign your comments. 
Most recent postings to the top. 

10/24: Experimentation revealed that the problem with applet portability was not in the code, but in the packaging. When the bare .class files are placed in an html-accessible directory, they work, at least in the perl-free version. Currently in kiparsky's umb account, waiting for test server issues to be cleared up. 

Issues for Tuesday post-class meeting:
 * Features of version 1.0
 * plan of versions, most specific wrt 0.2 - 0.4, diminishing from there.
 * class structures needed in current version to allow for implementation of 0.2 and .3 at least. 
 * assignments and deadlines

 Team should review Glenn's code before Tuesday and come prepared to work on the above. 

10/21: Posted two classes to the "rewrite" branch, "Thing.java" and "View.java". I wrote these to see if I could make the Observer/Observable relation do something. This is the simplest possible exercise of this pair I can imagine: View creates a "Thing" object with a location, then tells it to change its 'location'. This tells View's update to report Thing's current location. These files can eventually be discarded or archived, posted for info only. -jpk

10/20: Rebooting the project. Decision made to discard previous code and rebuild the functionality, approximating as closely as possible the behavior of the version supplied by Professor White. This decision based on the radical nature of the changes required to implement the desired behavior, which would amount to a near-total rewrite. Initial step will be to construct a 4-panel GUI capable of reflecting simple data in four different forms. Successive steps must still be scheduled; detailing this is the next critical event. 


=Old status report=
Group met during class session. Some discussion of how to proceed, no firm events scheduled. 

Events/milestones to be scheduled (some of many)

  * Meet with client to discuss project requirements, prioritize features, discuss details of UI options
  * Meet with previous code writer to discuss details of code handoff (ie, we've got questions about the architecture we've inherited)


Decisions to be made

  * Refactor or rewrite? (current leaning of the group is strongly towards refactor)

Administrative necessities (add or delete as you see fit)
  * Schedule
  * Group coding conventions

Undertakings:

  * Jon will generate Javadoc for the current code this weekend
  * Glenn will review code with an eye to refactoring
  * Andrew is working on getting code up and running on a second server, with "up and running" to be specified
  * All will test the current release (Prof. White's server) on their available browsers, report results. 