#summary Developer's Guide: TBSGraphics.java

= Introduction =

INCOMPLETE

TBSGraphics contains constants and static methods used for graphics throughout the TBS Applet. Static constants are either hard-coded or set according to environment. When constants are set elsewhere in the code, this page indicates where this occurs as well as the rationale for the constant. 

Constants:
  * Applet height & width are set according to height and width parameters passed by frame page. 
  * The "line of death" is the vertical line separating the inactive organisms from those in the tree. The constant LINE_OF_DEATH is the X coordinate of this vertical line. It is hard-coded to 180 pixels, corresponding to the width of the Horseshoe Crab node plus its label. 
  * padding is a Dimension representing the standard padding, in pixels, separating objects. Currently hard-coded to 10 pixels horizontally, and 5 vertically. 
  * numOfOrganisms is the number of organisms loaded into the applet by TBSApplet.loadOrganisms(). It is declared here and set when organisms are loaded. 
  * organismNodeHeight and organismNodeWidth are the width of all labelled organism nodes (ie, organism nodes "at rest" in the left-hand column). These values are calculated and set by StudentView.
  * maxOrganismStringHeight and maxOrganismStringWidth are values calculated by TBSApplet.loadOrganisms(). 
  * maxOrganismImageHeight and maxOrganismImageWidth are values calculated by TBSApplet.loadOrganisms().
  * maxStudentNameWidth is a hard-coded constant, currently set to 150 pixels. (is there a figure in characters at any point in the code?)
  * emptyNodeLabel: the default label for EmptyNodes ("Branch Points") when they are placed in the tree. 
  * emptyNodePattern & writtenResponseIllegalCharacters are used to ensure that only legal characters are accepted from the student. 
  * maxLinesOfWrittenText is an arbitrary cap on allowable text entry in prompt objects. 
  * emptyNodeLeftX/UpperY: EmptyNodes ("Branch Points") begin in the "inactive column"; their location is calculated based on the location of the last Organism Node. Changes in dimensions of Organism Nodes will automatically adjust starting location of Empty Node. 
  * emptyNodeHeight & emptyNodeWidth: EmptyNodes ("Branch Points") are rendered as 20X20 squares when placed in the tree, until text is entered. 
  * emptyNodeLabelOffset and Padding are used in rendering EmptyNodes correctly.
  * arrowLength is the initial length of arrowheads (before dragging)
  * ySpacing is the constant padding between Nodes in the left-hand column. 
  * buttonsHeight & buttonsWidth
  * questionButtonsStart: 
  * closeButtonStroke: 
  * textHeight: 

  * Color values are chosen arbitrarily, and are kept in TBSGraphics for convenience and ease of modification. 
  * Font properties are defined here for consistency throughout the applet. 


Static methods:
  * Comparator <ModelElement> : Model elements are sorted by ID number. 
  * get2DStringBounds() : Returns a Dimension for the rectangle occupied by a string. 
  * drawCenteredString() : calculates the correct placement for a centered string in a given frame and draws it. 
  * renderButtonBackground() : Renders button background
  * breakStringByLineWidth() : Calculates line breaks, returns a list of Strings of correct length for a given line length. 
  * updateBroswerSpecs() : Checks for Macintosh browsers and adjusts font accordingly. 

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages