Information for our volunteer testers

= Introduction =

Thank you for volunteering to test the TBS applet. Your feedback will help us improve this testing software: the more you complain, the better. Please read this over so you know how best to complain helpfully. 

= The Purpose = 

The purpose of this applet is to extract a representation of a freshman biology student's understanding of the relationships between twenty different organisms. The goal is not to test their knowledge and assign a grade, but to find out how well they understand the subject in order to teach biology more effectively. 

Your task is to assume that you are a student in Biology 101. Your professor has assigned you to take this on-line test about evolution, and it's worth ten points on your final grade. Try to complete the task. Does the program work the way you expect it to? Do the instructions instruct? Were you able to finish the task in a way that seemed satisfying to you? If not, what prevented you? 


= Reporting Issues =
The most obvious failures of the program are bugs. Bugs range from total failure of the code all the way down to modest failures to meet expectations. If it annoys you, or surprises you, or goes contrary to your intuition, we'd probably want to know about it. Less obvious, but reported in the same way, are non-code issues, such as unclear instructions, typos, or an objection to a choice of color. Anything that strikes you as noteworthy can and should be reported as an "issue". User interface is definitely an issue: if you expect a certain behavior, and get something else, then you've found a bug. 

How much time you want to spend reporting bugs is up to you; the only thing we ask is that you give us some details about any issue that you choose to report. 
The importance of a bug report is that it enables us to figure out in detail what happened when things went wrong. The more you can tell us about what the state of things when the bug occurred, the more useful your report. 

To report a bug or a glitch, click on the issues tab, above. First, look down the list of reported issues. If any of the issues reported seem to match what you're seeing, click on that issue and read futher. If it seems like it's the same problem, you can add your experience as a comment to this one. This is very useful, especially if you have more information on how the bug came about, or if you found a similar problem under different circumstances. 

If you don't see a bug similar to yours, click on "New Issue", directly below the TBS logo in the upper left corner of the Issues page. From the drop down menu, select "defect report from user", and fill in the fields. Make the summary as precise as you can. "A problem with TBS" is not a helpful summary. "Undo Print fails to revert my printout to a blank sheet of paper" would be a good level of detail. 

OS and browser information are important. In principle, this code should work on any browser and any system. In practice, this has not been the case. 


= Failure to Load = 

One bug that we are aware of is the failure of the applet to load on certain non-Windows machines: some Linux and Macintosh machines have had trouble starting this applet. If you click the "Log in" button and the applet fails to appear, please add a comment under Issue 34 "Applet fails to load..." with the details of your OS (ie, Mac OS 10.5.8)  and browser (ie, Firefox 3.6.7). If you know what level of java your machine is running, or you know how to find out, that's also useful. If not, don't worry about it. 

Mac users: if you find that the applet fails to load, we have had good luck running it under [http://www.icab.de iCab]. The trial version is a free download, and it's a pretty quick install. You might even find you like the browser, although it's a $20 charge to register your copy and and get rid of the "please register" notice. 

= Narrative reports = 
We'd prefer that you provide your feedback as Issues, as described above. However, if there's something that doesn't seem suited to that format, or you'd just prefer to submit your feedback in a more free-form or narrative approach, you can send it as email to jon.kiparsky@gmail.com


= The Applet = 

Now that you've read this, click [http://cluster.bio.whe.umb.edu/cgi-bin/Test/TBSTestSurvey.pl here] to go to the applet. Select your name from the drop-down menu and click the "login" button to start. Hint - if you open the applet in separate tab, it'll be easier to report issues as they come up!