#summary Mike the Biology Professor Uses TBS

Mike is a biology professor, new in the field, at a small university in Idaho. He teaches freshman bio, and he's not sure what his students know about evolution, what they think they know, or what they know that just ain't so. He's heard about this Tree-Building thing, and so he fires up a web browser (they've recently got those in Idaho) and points it at Tree-BuildingSoftware.org, where he finds a beautifully designed and well-documented web-based application. He creates a user identity, in which he identifies himself as a professor (and possibly authenticates that fact, I forget whether he did that or not, probably not) and is asked to provide a roster of his biology class. Fortunately, he's got an excel spreadsheet that he uses to track homework, so he tricks it into exporting a comma-delimited list of names, which the web site happily accepts and uses to create a special test area for Mike's students. Now, Mike's students can log in and take the little quiz he's assigned them, and after the due date he can log in again and get a report (another comma-delimited list, perhaps) of students who have completed the quiz, which he will use to give them credit for completing the assignment. By pushing another button, he can review the students' individual answers, which he will joyfully use to determine how well their understanding of phylogeny has evolved, and to tailor his curriculum to best improve their wee little minds. What fun Mike has had! He can't wait to do it again next year! And all the while, he has the satisfaction of knowing that Brian is using his data (stripped of names, of course!) to learn more about how the youth of America - and the world! - conceive of the Web of Life... but that's another story.