#summary The Toy GUI


= Introduction =
The rewrite will begin with a "hello, world" applet: a toy GUI implementing Model-View-Controller architecture. 

The toy GUI should display an applet with four frames, selectable by top tabs. Each frame will be an independent view on the same model data. The applet should allow the user to click and drag to create a rectangle with corners at the start and stop points of the click and drag. The start and stop points are the data that will enter the model, in order to demonstrate independence of the four views, each will render the same rectangle, in a different color. 


= Testing =

Behavior:
The model should perform intuitively under the following conditions. Some of these are more arbitrary than intuitive, but for the purposes of testing, intuitive is as stated, if stated. 

 * X, Y increasing and decreasing: should work in all directions.
 * No drag: create W X W dot, where W is line width. 
 * Offscreen drag - expansion of rectangle should cease at edge of frame when mouse leaves frame. Maximum coordinate value is width or height of frame, minimum is zero. Visually, border of rectangle should run alongside frame border (both should be visible, contrasting colors please). (if it helps, jog those max and min values in a hair)
 * Re-entering frame: start rectangle at point O (Origin). Drag down and right until mouse leaves frame. Bring mouse back into frame. Is behavior correct when mouse re-enters? Check all four sides. Correct behavior: second x,y coordinate pair is at final mouse release point, if it's within the frame. 
 * Out-of-frame: if there is visible tracking of the mouse, does it behave correctly when the mouse is out of frame? 
 * Is the frame size responsive to the user's window size? Does it resize if the user resizes? (This may be an issue in deployment: White assumed a large monitor, larger than most machines, and certainly larger than typical laptops)
 * Is the rectangle identically located in each of the four frames?
 * Do the doors align flush with their frames? Do the locking mechanisms engage cleanly? If so, check your work: you built a cabinet, when we wanted an applet. 
