#summary Vision Statement

=Proposed Vision Statement =


   The TBS group envisions a world in which research in biology education is facilitated by appropriate software tools for eliciting students' intuitions on biological classifications.
 
Revision, if desired: add to above "..., an area of importance in both practical teaching of biology and in broader understanding of the popular conception of the evolutionary relationships between diverse organisms."

=Previous proposal:=

  Our group's vision is to become a leader in software development.  Being a leader means gaining client satisfaction by providing on-time delivery of innovative, up-to-date, under budget, working software applications.*


= Discussion = 
  * Prof. Bolker's objections seem to stem from the fact that this doesn't actually relate to the product. Since this group exists precisely and solely to work on this project, that seems a valid objection. "Your vision statement should describe your vision for the deliverable." Well and good, my attempt is above. Please amend. -jpk
  * Seems fine to me. Apparently my understanding of the vision statements of Coca-Cola, General Motors and McDonald's was pretty far off.  Thanks for taking the reins on it. -as

   * I still don't like it. Why must it use the passive voice ("is facilitated by")? Evolution is a controversial subject in society and a central one in biology. I think the vision statement should acknowledge that (at least implicitly). The current version never even uses the word. I hope Prof White doesn't say what you have is fine. -eb
 
  * The passive voice is an appropriate construction for the context, as it puts the attention on "research in biology education" - the real concern for example, of a potential funder, or indeed of the client - over the software, which is mostly interesting to us. However, it can be restated in the active -  "a world in which appropriate software tools facilitate research in biology education" - without damage to the sense. As for evolution, the addition suggested above might meet your concerns. 